Hello Frins
In this video let us discuss about the implementation of
finding nth Fibonacci using top down approach with Memoization
So as we have discussed in the previous video the
algorithm to implement the top down approach with Memoization is
first declaring an array to store the sub problem results
then initialising the array to minus one here minus one
indicates that the sub problem solution needs to be computed
now before making any recursive call check whether the sub
problem needs to be solved that is if it is
already solved we only need to take the result from
there only
Otherwise we need to compute it so
Checked if result of n equal to minus one
If yes it needs to be solved so compute it
and store it in result else if it is already
solved just returned the already computed result let us see
how it works
We are going to find Fib of four so in this
call n will be equal to four check if result
of four equal to minus one
And it is so we need to compute the result
now check If n is less than or equal to one
and it is not as n is equal to four
So else part will be executed here
Fib of n is equal to fib of n minus one
plus fib of n minus two
So we have two recursive calls
And here the first Recursive call fib of n
minus one that is fib of Three will be executed
first and the next recursive call
Fib of n minus two will wait until the first
two recursive call finishes its job
so fib of three will be called and here first we
will check if result of n equal to minus one
and it is
So we need to compute the result
So check if n is less than or equal to
one
Since n equal to three it fails so the else part
will be executed
And here again we have two recursive
calls fib of n minus one that is fib of
two and fib of n minus two
That is fib of one and the first recursive call
fib of two will be executed first and the second
recursive call fib of one will wait until fib of
two finishes
Its job So fib of two is called and here
also first we are checking if result of n is
equal to minus one and it is minus one
So it means it is not solved yet
And we need to compute the result so
check if n is less than or equal to one and
since n equal to two it fails so the else
part will be executed
Here we have two recursive calls again
fib of n minus one and fib of n minus
two
That is fib of one and fib of zero Here
also as we have discussed the first recursive calls
fib of one will be executed first and the next recursive
call fib of zero will wait until fib of
one gets completed so fib of one will be called
And here also we are checking if it is solved
and we have result of one is equal to minus
one
So we need to compute the result so
check If n is less than or equal to one
And it is so set result of n equal to
n
So in the array result of one is set to one
Now whenever we have fib of one called we can
simply take the result from this array and we do
not need to compute it Now here we have returned
result of n so one will be returned to calling
function Fib of two
Now this recursive call is finished
It has done its job
So now the second call fib of zero will be
executed here
Here also first we are checking if it is solved
and we have result of zero equal to minus one
So we need to compute the result
So check If n is less than or equal to one
and it is so set result of n is equal
to n So in the array result of zero is
set to zero And here we have returned result of
n so zero will be returned to the calling function
fib of two
Now this recursive call is finished and here we have
result of two equal to fib of one plus fib of
zero that is 1+0 which is equal to one
So result of two is computed and we got one
and it is stored in the array now we have returned
Result of n so one is returned to the calling
function fib of three here the first
recursive call is finished now the second one will be
called
That is fib of one
So it is called and here first we check if
result of n is equal to minus one
But it is not
Which means this sub problem is already solved
So we can just visit the array and take the
result from there and return it so this if block
will not be executed and the next statement returned to
result of n will be executed
So one is returned to the calling function fib of
three and this call is completed now
So here in fib of three we have result of
three computed which is one plus one which is equal
two and it is stored in the array
And finally we have returned Result of n so result of
three that is two is returned to the calling function
fib of four and here first recursive call fib of
three is completed
Now the second call fib of n minus two that
is fib of two is called here
First we check if result of n is minus one
But it is not
Which means this sub problem is already solved so we
can just visit the array and the already solved result will
be returned
This will save a lot of time and space in
computing
The result
If we had to compute it again we have to
check if n is less than or equal to one
And if it's not there will be two recursive calls
and it will take a lot of time and space
So this is how Memoization makes the programme efficient
So here this if block will not be executed and
the next statement returned result of n will be executed
and one will be returned to the calling function fib
Of four
And this call is also completed now and in fib of
four we have result of four equal to fib of three
that is two plus fib of two that is one which
is equal to a three and finally result of four
is returned to the calling function
Thus we have got the result fib of four equal to
three and this is how in top down approach Memoization
helps us avoid the recomputation issue and saves a lot of time and space.